feat(native): advanced usage section to explain OS error handling (#9787)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/native/advanced-usage/signal-handling/index.mdx

---
title: Signal Handling
description: "Learn about error handling common to all POSIX platforms."
sidebar_order: 1000
---

> The Native SDK uses signal handling on all supported platforms. On Linux (and Android), it is the primary mechanism to detect errors, while on macOS and Windows, signal handlers detect specific errors that other mechanisms do not detect or in lightweight backends that don't support the lower-level error handling mechanisms (for instance `inproc` on macOS).

Reviewer: I like the first option!

> A (POSIX) signal is a way for an operating system kernel to inform an application about an exceptional event and provide a mechanism for the application to react to that event. The operating system delivers this information by interrupting the current execution of the affected  application with a "handler" function that the application registered before.

Author: I can't entirely agree here because "exception" is an overloaded term; it either is too generic or has a technical meaning that refers to something very different from signals. 

I am okay with using different wording than "exceptional event", but "exception" is confusing given what most technical readers have in mind when reading that term. What about the following:

> A (POSIX) signal is a way for an operating system kernel to interrupt the execution of an application to deliver a message of urgency, often with the intent to terminate the application. The affected application can react to that interruption with a "handler" function it registered before.

> A (POSIX) signal is a way for an operating system kernel to inform an application about an exceptional event and provide a mechanism for the application to react to that event. The operating system delivers this information by interrupting the current execution of the affected  application with a "handler" function that the application registered before.

Reviewer 2: IMO we can keep "exceptional event" because it was used intentional as a more generic term

> A (POSIX) signal is a way for an operating system kernel to inform an application about an exceptional event and provide a mechanism for the application to react to that event. The operating system delivers this information by interrupting the current execution of the affected  application with a "handler" function that the application registered before.

Reviewer: ah, makes sense. I'm ok with leaving it as "exceptional event" then.

The topic of signal handling is vast, and this documentation can only guide you in the context of the Native SDK. If you are interested in more general documentation on the topic, we can recommend the following:

* The [main Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_(IPC)) provides an overview and links to many signal details.
* The [glibc-docs](https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/Signal-Handling.html) and [the man pages](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/signal.7.html) offer reference details for the signal vocabulary.
* We recommend chapters 20-22 of Michael Kerrisk's [The Linux Programming Interface](https://man7.org/tlpi/) if you want a book-length treatment.
 

## Signals of interest

> Signals can support many events, not all of which signify an error or terminate the application (like `SIGCONT`, `SIGUSR1`, or `SIGUSR2`).
> 
> In the context of the Native SDK, we are only interested in signals that will result in the application's unexpected termination (crashes). These typically include:
> 
> * `SIGSEGV`: the process tried to access an invalid virtual memory "segment".
> * `SIGBUS`: the process tried to access an invalid physical address or a VM page failed to "page-in".
> * `SIGABRT`: raised when `abort()` was called. This is the only signal handled on Windows (and only by the `crashpad` backend) because calling `abort()` bypasses Structured Exception Handling ([`SEH`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/debug/structured-exception-handling)).
> * `SIGFPE`: an erroneous arithmetic operation that occurred in the CPU.
> * `SIGILL`: the process attempted to execute an illegal (often privileged) processor instruction.
> * `SIGTRAP`: typically used to inform debuggers when execution hits a breakpoint instruction (`int 3`, `brk`, etc.), which instrumentation tools and sanitizers sometimes also issue.
> 
> If you use the `crashpad` backend, in addition to the above, on Linux, you will also get crash reports for:
> 
> * `SIGSYS`: the kernel received a system call with an invalid argument.
> * `SIGEMT`: an emulator trap occurred.
> * `SIGXCPU`: the process exceeded a previously specified CPU [rlimit](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/getrlimit.html).
> * `SIGXFSZ`: similar to `SIGXCPU`, raised when a process grows a file beyond a maximum allowed size ([`RLIMIT_FSIZE`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/getrlimit.2.html)). 
> 
> If your application currently installs handlers for any of the above signals, that can result in a potential conflict. Expressly
> 
> * refrain from registering a conflicting signal handler in your application.
> * if you have to, register this handler after `sentry_init()` and let it invoke the previously installed handler (ours) after it finished or you won't get a report.
> * if you or one of your dependencies register a handler for the above signals _before_ you call `sentry_init()`, we will reinstall the previous handler as soon as you call `sentry_close()`. Only the `inproc` backend invokes the previously installed handler at the end of its handler.
> * if you want to act on any crash and not consider specific signals, [register an `on_crash()` hook](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/native/configuration/filtering/#using-on_crash).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Signal Handling Conflicts

Sentry's Native SDK comes with its own set of signal handlers. There may be conflicts if your application currently installs handlers for any [signals of interest](#signals-of-interest) (listed below) that can result in a crash. To avoid this, do the following:

* Refrain from registering a conflicting signal handler in your application.
* If you have to, register this handler after `sentry_init()` and let it invoke the previously installed handler (ours) after it finishes or you won't get a report.
* If you or one of your dependencies register a handler for the signals listed below _before_ you call `sentry_init()`, we will reinstall the previous handler as soon as you call `sentry_close()`. Only the `inproc` backend invokes the previously installed handler at the end of its handler.
* If you want to act on any crash and not consider specific signals, [register an `on_crash()` hook](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/native/configuration/filtering/#using-on_crash).

### Signals of Interest

In the context of the Native SDK, we are only interested in signals that will result in the application's unexpected termination (crashes). These typically include:

* `SIGSEGV`: The process tried to access an invalid virtual memory "segment".
* `SIGBUS`: The process tried to access an invalid physical address or a VM page failed to "page-in".
* `SIGABRT`: Raised when `abort()` was called. This is the only signal handled on Windows (and only by the `crashpad` backend) because calling `abort()` bypasses Structured Exception Handling ([`SEH`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/debug/structured-exception-handling)).
* `SIGFPE`: An erroneous arithmetic operation that occurred in the CPU.
* `SIGILL`: The process attempted to execute an illegal (often privileged) processor instruction.
* `SIGTRAP`: Typically used to inform debuggers when execution hits a breakpoint instruction (`int 3`, `brk`, etc.), which instrumentation tools and sanitizers sometimes also issue.

If you use the `crashpad` backend, in addition to the above, on Linux, you will also get crash reports for:

* `SIGSYS`: The kernel received a system call with an invalid argument.
* `SIGEMT`: An emulator trap occurred.
* `SIGXCPU`: The process exceeded a previously specified CPU [rlimit](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/getrlimit.html).
* `SIGXFSZ`: Similar to `SIGXCPU`, raised when a process grows a file beyond a maximum allowed size ([`RLIMIT_FSIZE`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/getrlimit.2.html)). 
```

I think it makes more sense to put the useful info (how to avoid conflicts) up top so it's easier for users to skim. Otherwise, it's easy to miss after a long reference list. I'd also create a new subsection for signals of interest for easy reference.

> * if you want to act on any crash and not consider specific signals, [register an `on_crash()` hook](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/native/configuration/filtering/#using-on_crash).

Reviewer: I think referencing "previous handler" gets confusing. Can we simplify the wording by saying "your handler" and "Sentry's handler"? That would make it much clearer which handler we're referencing.

Author: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Thanks. Fixed it here: https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/pull/9787/commits/fb22952c2f2d4e20122bbcf3243703fc958eba00

## What to consider when writing `on_crash` hooks

The callback that you register as an `on_crash` hook (and `before_send` if you didn't turn it off for crashes) runs in the context of a signal handler.

Since signal handlers can interrupt the running process at any time (and even each other), take  special care when writing them. 

Our ["develop" docs provide guidelines for writing signal handlers](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/signal-handlers/), which also apply to the hooks if you run on Linux or Android. Please take them seriously.

> ## Stack size in the signal handler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Stack Size in the Signal Handler
```

In addition to the above guidelines, you must consider the signal handler's stack usage. Because a stack overflow (where the process stack is exhausted) can be one reason to end up in a signal handler, we typically reserve a separate signal handler stack (`sigaltstack()`) so that we can continue to run the handler when it gets executed.

> This stack is 64KiB on Linux. On Android, it is 16KiB on 32-bit and 32KiB on 64-bit devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stack is 64KiB on Linux. On Android, it is 16KiB on 32-bit devices and 32KiB on 64-bit devices.
```

* `SIGILL`: The process attempted to execute an illegal (often privileged) processor instruction.
* `SIGTRAP`: This is typically used to inform debuggers when execution hits a breakpoint instruction (`int 3`, `brk`, etc.), which instrumentation tools and sanitizers sometimes also issue.

If you use the `crashpad` backend, in addition to the above, on Linux, you will also get crash reports for:

* `SIGSYS`: The kernel received a system call with an invalid argument.
* `SIGEMT`: An emulator trap occurred.
* `SIGXCPU`: The process exceeded a previously specified CPU [rlimit](https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/getrlimit.html).
* `SIGXFSZ`: Similar to `SIGXCPU`, raised when a process grows a file beyond a maximum allowed size ([`RLIMIT_FSIZE`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/getrlimit.2.html)). 

## What to Consider When Writing `on_crash` Hooks

The callback that you register as an `on_crash` hook (and `before_send` if you didn't turn it off for crashes) runs in the context of a signal handler.

Since signal handlers can interrupt the running process at any time (and even each other), take  special care when writing them. 

> Our ["develop" docs provide guidelines for writing signal handlers](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/signal-handlers/), which also apply to the hooks if you run on Linux or Android. Please take them seriously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our developer documentation provides [guidelines for writing signal handlers](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/signal-handlers/). If you run on Linux or Android, these guidelines also apply to hooks. Signal handlers are often difficult to work with, so following these guidelines is important if you want to get good crash reports.
```
Instead of telling them to take it seriously, let's give them a reason to 🙂

Author: Okay, let's make it really impactful then: this is not about getting good or better crash reports but rather about causing crashes or other severe faults (like deadlocks) in the handler itself, which can prevent sending reports or programs from terminating.
